Or write in this lecture we're going to go over something called the center line of Graben or the line
of bounds.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So it's really important that you understand what the centerline of gravity is.
Otherwise your characters are going to look in balance.
And what that means is it's going to look like they're about to topple over.
Now maybe in some cases you actually want them to look like that.
But in most cases you want them to look like they're actually balanced.
Now all these drawings right here are balanced.
And let me show you how I know.
So what you want to do to make sure that your character is balanced is you want to find a line so you're
going to find a point right in the middle of the head and then you going to draw that line coming straight
down all the way down to your feet.
Now if this line is about in the middle or close to the middle of your two feet then that means your
character is balanced because the weight is evenly dispersed between the two feet.
Same with this one.
So if we go ahead and draw a line comes straight down from this head all the way down to the feet.
Now you'll notice that it's not in the middle is actually on one foot and all that means is that all
the weight is on this foot right here.
If I wanted to go ahead and pull his foot back to here it would still work because now the weight would
be evenly dispersed between the foot back here and the foot right here.
So as long as the line is between the two feet or is over one foot that means that your character is
balanced.
Now let's have a look at some examples where the character is not balanced at all.
So let's go ahead and sketch some things out.
So if we do our head right here for example we're going to draw a straight line down.
But now if I go ahead and draw the net coming off like so and I draw the chest area like so and the
pelvis is right here.
And then I have the legs coming off like so and they're standing over here.
Well now they look like they're actually about to fall over.
So if I had some arms in here
and now kind of looks like they're waving their hands around because they're about to fall over because
this line of balance or this line of gravity is not lined up with their feet and so they have nothing
balancing them.
Let's have a look at another imbalance drawing.
So let's say that we have somebody running.
So this is a very simple drawing of somebody running it's not extremely accurate but I just wanted to
get this point across.
All right.
So here's somebody running.
There's the floor right there.
And if we draw a line coming straight down for this head it is lined up with his foot but his foot is
on this floor surface.
And so it's not really bent because gravity is going to end up pushing him down because his foot isn't
touching water.
Now what's happening here is that he's actually falling forward when he's running.
When you run you fall forward even when you walk you're falling forward.
And so actually if you draw somebody walking or running in action you're actually not going to get very
good balance and you're drawn.
Which is OK.
You only want balance when the person is standing.
But in this case there's no balance because he's falling forward.
But then he's going to put his foot out eventually and catch himself over here and I'll continue to
do this as long as he's running.
Now let's have a look at one example of somebody that is balanced.
So if we wanted to we could have somebody standing here on one foot and we could have the other foot
out like this.
And then we have their body like so we can have them do some sort of cheapos.
Go ahead put the head right there.
Now this person is balanced even though they're only standing on one foot.
We draw a line come straight down from the middle of the head all the way to the foot all the weight
is on that foot.
And so it's considered balance.
If you were trying to do this pose in real life and he felt on balance the only reason why you're unbalanced
is because your head is moving out from the center of your foot.
If it moves over here you're going to feel like you're in a fall over that side.
And if it moves over here you're going to feel like you're going to fall over to that side.
So take this into account when you're drawing your figures or your character designs.
Want to make sure they look balanced.
I've seen a lot of really good character designs but they look wrong because they look like they're
about to topple over.
So make sure that you study this and always draw a line through the center of the head all the way down
to the feet to make sure that it looks balanced.
So remember to make your character balanced the line needs either line up with one foot so that all
the weight is on one foot or it needs to line up between the two feet so that the weight is evenly dispersed
between them.
If your line is lined up out here and your feet are clear over here then your character is going to
look like he's about to fall over like we saw in this example your assignment for this lecture is to
go ahead and find a photo of somebody that you think is balanced and then I want you to go ahead and
draw the image of them.
And now I want you to draw the line of gravity through them showing where they're balanced.
Then I want you to find a photo of somebody that looks like they're about to fall over or if you need
to you can even take a picture of yourself falling over and then I want you to draw the line of gravity
through that image showing how they're imbalanced.
Then if you want to you can go ahead and post that to the Q and A section of the Course or the Facebook
group.
This one you don't have to post but if you'd like to you can.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.